Cleaning (#11)
ome/omero-guide-cellprofiler: docs/cellprofiler.rst

===========================================

Description
-----------

We will demonstrate how to integrate CellProfiler and
OMERO using the CellProfiler Python API and the OMERO Python API. We
will use a Jupyter notebook to demonstrate the integration.

We will show:

- How to adjust an existing CellProfiler pipeline so that it can be used with OMERO.

- How load images from a Plate using the OMERO API.

- How to run CellProfiler using its Python API.

- How to plot the results.

- How to save the generated results back to OMERO as OMERO.table so they can be used later on by OMERO.parade.

Resources
---------

We will use a CellProfiler example pipeline to analyse RNAi screening
data from the Image Data Resource (IDR).

> - Example pipeline `PercentPositive Pipeline <https://cellprofiler.org/examples/>`_.

Reviewer: The link leads to a page where there are all CP examples. None of them is called "PercentPositive..." - it is quite hard to find the right one. Maybe point to the direct download, or cite the Paragraph Specialized Pipelines, see screenshot (possibly I do not have the right one, but this is the point here)

![Screen Shot 2020-06-23 at 17 03 06](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2478303/85427362-8fffe480-b573-11ea-9b51-e0471e47715e.png)

- Images from IDR `idr0002 <https://idr.openmicroscopy.org/webclient/?show=screen-102>`_.

- Notebook :download:`idr0002_save.ipynb <../notebooks/idr0002_save.ipynb>`

For convenience, the IDR data have been imported into the training
OMERO.server. This is only because we cannot save results back to IDR
which is a read-only OMERO.server.

Step-by-Step
------------

The pipeline is run on all 2-Channel images from each Well in the 96-well plate (each Well contains one image), generating a CSV file containing rows for different objects identified in the
image and columns for various parameters measured.

#. First, open the webclient and find the Plate belonging to trainer-1 named plate1_1_013.

#. Go to `mybinder.org <https://mybinder.org/>`_.

> #. Copy and paste the URL of this repository.

Reviewer: When I am reading the text of the guide, I will have no chance to realize where is the hosting repository and what is its link.

Reviewer: (it makes sense only now as we are in github here, but otherwise, for example finiding https://omero-guides.readthedocs.io/en/latest/cellprofiler/docs/cellprofiler.html via internet search engine - I have no way to go back to this repo

#. These modules are replaced by the InjectImage module, using numpy planes loaded from OMERO Images. This allows to pass data from OMERO to CellProfiler.

#. Note that to save time, we run on a subset of all Wells in the plate. We run it on the first 5 wells

    .. image:: images/cp2.png

#. The generated CSV file is read into a Dataframe for each image. We add the Image ID and Well ID, as well as the total number of Objects, Cell_Count, to each Dataframe.

#. All the Dataframes are then concatenated into a single Dataframe.

> #. We visualise the data as histograms for each column with ``df.hist()``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. We visualize the data as histograms for each column with ``df.hist()``.
```

> #. Now you can use theslider to filter Wells by Cell Count.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Now you can use the slider to filter Wells by Cell Count.
```
